#Notes
 
## Jakub Mrożek  3:05 PM

1. The goal is to find an ansatz that approximates the actual solution in fewest possible CNOT gates. We were able to try many different settings, and each time check how close it comes to the accepted ground state energy. It is quite clear that our final solution will be a product of some kind of "feedback loop" implicitly looking at the ground state eigenstate and trying to approximate it. Even if you don't manually inspect the actual ground state, it is still guiding the "evolution" of your solution, in similar manner in which natural selection, an unconsious process, guides evolution in nature.

2. The problem can be cleanly split in half. The first half is trying to get as few qubits as possible while still having the ground state inside or just slighly outside your state space. After modifying the qubits, utilizing symmetries, freezing the core and all that, we have a quantum system with n spins and a certain Hamiltonian. If the ground state energy of that quantum system is too high, there is no point making ansatzes/choosing optimizers - there are no legal ways of getting to lower than the lowest eigenenergy, it's just how linear algebra works. If, on the other hand, our energy is within bounds, then there must exist a quantum circuit that gets us to the eigenstate, based on universality. So really we don't have to bother about ansatz or optimizers at all in this first part.

3. The LiH has axial symmetry, H has 1s orbital, and Li has 1s, 2s, and px, py, pz orbitals. 6 in total. Li 1s has core electrons which shouldn't form the bond. The ground state of this molecule is a sigma bond, where electrons from H 1s and Li 2s orbitals mostly interact. Because of symmetry, you also allow some mixing with pz (if z is in the direction of the axis between H and Li). This is of course some prior quantum chemistry knowledge, but not very advanced. Therefore it makes sense that you should be able to freeze the core and remove two orbitals (px,py) that do not contribute to the ground state. I could have checked which numbers correspond to px and py but it was faster to just run it and see how the exact energy changes, also confirming that I was (probably) right here. Those were orbitals 3 and 4.

4. Furthermore, I decided to try the 2 qubit reduction setting, even though I still don't fully get how it works exactly. It would perhaps be more evident if I had read something explicit about the Parity Mapper. I only learned during this challenge you can map fermion second quantization ops to spin ops (wow). But it did work, ie. checking this option didn't mess the exact energy up.

5. Once I had 4 qubits and good exact energy, I started trying different ansatz and optimizers. This is mostly randomly trying things, as I didn't want to just look up the exact eigenstate. I first tried TwoLocal, played with parameters, discovered that you only need one layer of entanglement at this point (setting 'sca'), but you need two layers of rotations (fortunately they don't contribute to the score).

6. Because of dimensionality of separable and entangled Hilbert spaces it is a good heuristic to realize that the eigenstate, whatever it is, is likely to be fully entangled. So each spin had to be connected to each other somehow, what requires n-1 CNOTs on n qubits. Also, if you take a step back and think in terms of the second quantization operators, they tell you how many electrons are in each state, but the total number of valence electrons is 2. So you are more likely to have superpositions like |01>+|10> (entangled) rather than |00> + |10> (not entangled). Even though of course this is just an approximation at this point.

7. Because I had 4 qubits, I tried a custom ansatz with a full layer of rotations (same as in TwoLocal), then 3 random CNOTs connecting all the qubits, then another layer of rotations. There are, I think, 30 possibilities. I think I tried like 12 and one worked.